>> I expect that
reincarnation is true.
After you leave your
body on this existence,
then you go into
some other realm.
And after some
length of time has
elapsed on this Earth
plane, for some reason
you choose to go back.
There is a conscious process
in selecting the life
that you're going to lead,
and that you consider
different alternatives, and
then that you choose someone
that I gather that you
learned something from.
>> Reincarnation is a
concept that stretches deep
into our history and is the
central tenet for many pagan
and Indian religions, including
Buddhism and Hinduism.
Billions of people
around the world
still believe in
the idea of rebirth.
But is there any
scientific evidence
to support such claims?
>> So what they've done is
to collect thousands of case
studies that support the idea
that these kind of past life
experiences are vividly
remembered and are even
correlated with some kind
of physical birthmark.
>> If reincarnation is real,
then what might its purpose be?
Why do souls
repeatedly incarnate?
>> The soul is
required to evolve.
It's almost like
as a soul, we're
required to come into body,
and we're required to learn.
And learning isn't easy.
>> The implications of
reincarnation are no less than
profound and could answer some
of the big questions humans
have been asking since
the dawn of time.
Who are we and why are we here?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the United States, there's
this myth that ideas about
reincarnation first came into
the west through India back
in the 19th century.
But that's just simply not
correct because reincarnation,
it was present as an idea
at the very beginning
of western civilization.
>> Scholars agree the concept
of reincarnation is rooted
in antiquity.
For example, the Neanderthal
buried their dead
along with their instruments
and food for future lives.
And the idea of
rebirth continued
into western
civilization, and was
famously taught by the
man who coined the term
philosophy, Pythagoras.
>> Pythagoras, for example,
who was the person who coined
the term philosophy,
was a reincarnationist.
And he claimed to remember
eight of his past lives,
and had some
technique that he was
able to get his students to
have that experience as well.
>> Past life regressions can
be a contentious topic among
practitioners of psychology.
The evidence and accounts
are overwhelming,
but there's debate as
to what they really are.
Dr. Ian Stevenson was a
well-respected psychologist
and was the chair of the
Department of Psychology
at the University of Virginia.
He was given a $1 million
grant to fund research
into paranormal psychology,
also known as parapsychology,
with the intention of disproving
the concept of reincarnation.
Stevenson went on to
research thousands
of cases on the uncanny
memories of young children
from their past lives.
While his intention was to
disprove this phenomenon,
in the end, he became one
of its staunchest defenders
and most dedicated researchers.
Today, Dr. Jim Tucker
continues to conduct
the work started by Stevenson.
Unlike past life regressionists,
Dr. Stevenson and Dr. Tucker
do not study those
put under hypnosis.
Instead, they look
at cases of kids
who start to spontaneously
remember things and start
speaking about their previous
lives while fully cognizant.
In one of Tucker's papers,
he recounts a story
of a boy from Thailand
who, at the age of three,
started complaining that
he had been shot and killed
in his past life while
riding a bicycle to school.
He even remembered that
he was a local teacher,
and he remembered
his name, Bua Kai.
His grandmother took him to the
village where he said he lived,
and he led her to a house.
He recognized the
people living there,
and they confirmed that five
years earlier, their son, Bua
Kai, had been shot and killed
while riding a bike to work.
He was shot in the back of the
head, marked by a small entry
wound, with a larger exit
wound in the front of his head.
The little boy had been
born with a small birthmark
on the back of his head and
a larger, oddly-shaped mark
on his forehead.
>> It happens a
lot with children.
And at the University of
Virginia in Charlottesville,
they have documented
thousands of these cases.
So you can say,
you can't make this
happen in a laboratory setting.
But what you can do is
create enough evidence
that it becomes
something meaningful from
a scientific point of view.
And that's what we have
in terms of the evidence
for reincarnation.
>> There are two primary ways
people recall past lives.
One is spontaneously, like in
the case of so many children
who suddenly remember
memories in great detail.
Number two is hypnotherapy,
where a patient
is put under hypnosis and then
guided by a trained regression
therapist into recalling
previous lifetimes.
>> It surprises people how easy
it is to access the first scene
in a past life.
And then it's the job of a
trained regression therapist
to know how to open it
up, how to ask questions,
how to deepen it.
But also, it moves
forward spontaneously.
I don't give the
information to the client.
They tell me the information.
>> If reincarnation is real,
then what is its purpose?
Dr. Linda Backman, psychologist
and regression therapist,
has guided hundreds of
patients into their past lives
and may have the answer.
>> The past lives explain
something in current life
because the past lives have
a direct connection to life
today.
They explain something
we're working on
to change in life today,
which is what we call karma.
They also can explain
a relationship,
a phobia, a physical symptom.
The soul is required to evolve,
and we're required to learn.
So we gather karma and
we also gather dharma,
and that's what we're working
on in our current life.
Karma is a free will
decision we made
in a past life that perhaps
wasn't the best decision.
It's not a permanent
black mark on your soul.
It's something you can
balance in a subsequent life.
You have a life plan,
life intentions.
And then you basically
come in with free will.
>> Many humans experience
profound suffering during
their lifetime.
So why would a soul
choose to come into body
knowing it will be painful?
>> It's perfectly plausible
to me that from the framework
outside of this one, we would
choose to come into it knowing
that we were going to be having
a certain kind of suffering
because we know from that
framework that it's time
limited, that
you'll be out of it.
But then once you get
into this framework, see,
that knowledge is blocked
so that you're faced there
with the raw suffering,
without the insight,
maybe, that you chose
it in the first place,
but also that it will be over.
>> One of the most fascinating
parts of reincarnation is
the idea of a soul group, or
a group of souls that choose
to incarnate together.
>> I know this from client
after client after client,
where what they come upon at
times in at the soul level
of a regression is a group of
souls with whom they incarnate
repetitively.
So simply put, I like
to call it a soul pod.
A soul pod means most of us have
about 10 to 20 souls with whom
we incarnate most often.
If you're the parent
and there's a child,
you made an agreement
at the soul level
to be parent and child.
You came together for a reason.
>> Throughout many
regression therapy sessions,
patients not only recall
previous human lives,
but the lives of intelligent,
off-planet alien species.
>> I'm regressing a lot of
clients in the last 10 to 12
years who discover their
interplanetary souls,
meaning they don't
regularly come here.
They come here on occasion,
and they come to Earth,
if I oversimplify the
explanation, because they're
highly evolved and they
come from evolved, healthy
locations.
They come to teach us how
to progress as humanity.
I have clients that begin--
I'm intending to guide
a past life regression,
and the first scene is
literally in a spaceship.
And some listeners
might go, oh, well,
the client was just
making that up.
The level of detail,
and the level of
not only the detail of the ship.
We get literal
physical detail of what
materials is it made from, and
what do the controls look like?
The chain of command on
the ship as explained.
The interrelationships of the
chain of command on the ship
is explained.
There's far too many details,
in my opinion, to be made up.
Matias de Stefano,
host of "Initiation",
claims to remember his past
lives as different ETs.
Like other
interplanetary souls, he
is here on a mission to teach
our intergalactic history
and to help raise
consciousness as humanity
progresses into a new age.
>> When I was 11, 12 years old,
I started to remember my lives.
And of course, I
thought many times
I was getting crazy
until I started
to find many others
that also remembered.
Everything that I
am doing in my life,
it's aligned to my mission
to go all around the world.
And to connect all
this nodes of energy,
and to share and teach
people about my memories
is something I live
in balance with.
>> Reincarnation is a concept
embedded in our history
and culture with profound
implications regarding
our purpose and evolution as
individuals and as a species.
While scientific evidence
is hard to quantify,
according to those who
remember their past lives,
our soul's evolution is akin
to an epic science fiction
narrative where the soul
learns and grows over
billions of years
through multiple species
throughout this
universe and beyond.
>> I gather that there must
be ways that you can tap
into these memories
of past lives.
However, I do respect
the Tibetan tradition
that says you probably
better leave it alone.
And the reason is Plato
said a similar thing.
If at every moment
in our waking life,
we were flooded with all this
information from past lives,
it would make it more
difficult to concentrate
on this task at hand.